When I first read the spec of the project, I had no idea how combining these three languages were possible. I already had a challenging time doing Prolog for the last project but since this was the last project, there's no harm in applying old concepts to new problems. The addition of C++ seemed intriguing since I didn't know you could use all three at the same time. The problem was a great one to solve since it was relevant to what was happening now.

To get started on this, I first looked at the class example which used all three languages as well. Initially, I had no idea what was happening and didn't think I myself could do this. However, I broke down each file and looked at the big picture; I first looked at what the problem was asking in the example and went from there. I sat down and really observed and analyzed the purpose of each language for each part of the problem and how they seamlessly worked together. I had no idea that you could make Prolog API calls in C++, but then again I have written only a few lines of C++ before this. Scala was great for making the Prolog knowledge base and using Prolog for functional logic was smart. I will say it was still tricky to follow but everything is a learning experience. Having C++ as the middleman between both the languages was the hardest to follow since I wasn't familiar with the language itself and functional programming is still fairly new to me. Once I went through the logic of the example, I started the project and broke down what steps were needed in each language respectively. 

I had many difficulties with this project if I'm being transparent and often times I felt defeated since the problem at hand wasn't a hard one but using each programming paradigm to their strength was. I realized that this was a new approach for me and it was okay and normal to run into roadblocks. I took away a lot from this experience, it was stimulating and I definitely learned a lot more about Scala and Prolog here. The C++ integration was also pretty neat, the scope of this problem taught me how the object-oriented capabilities of C++ can be used to create a clean bridge between C++ code and Prolog code. The resulting design allows C++ to be used for that aspect of an application it's best suited for, and Prolog for those aspects it's best suited for. While Prolog is used as both a database and a rule-base, the architecture makes it easy to maintain the logic rules of the application, coded in declarative Prolog. The link between Scala and Prolog is neatly encapsulated in a C++ object which I was glad to learn. Overall, this class taught me a lot of languages I wouldn't have been keen to learn on my own and new styles of programming I'm looking forward to using in the future. 

Thanks for taking the time to read this! If you would like to see my project, don't hesitate to contact me. My repos are private for school purposes but my email is lavanya@vt.edu
